Paper: Conformal Mappings with Sympy: Towards Python-driven Analytical Modeling in Physics (#619)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/lauer_bare_gaertig/lauer_bare_gaertig.rst

:author: Zoufiné Lauer-Baré
:email: zoufine.lauer-bare@hilite.com
:institution: Hilite International, Weberstrasse 17, Nürtingen, Germany

:author: Erich Gaertig
:email: erich.gaertig@hilite.com
:institution: Hilite International, Weberstrasse 17, Nürtingen, Germany

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Conformal Mappings with Sympy: Towards Python-driven Analytical Modeling in Physics

Reviewer: Sympy -> SymPy

Reviewer 2: Done

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> .. class:: abstract

Reviewer: The *introduction* of the paper is very readable, but the abstract contains a lot of jargon.  The proceedings are targeted at a general scientific audience, so I would rewrite this to be less specific and focus more on the main ideas.

Reviewer 2: We'll work on it

>    This contribution shows how the symbolic computing python library *sympy* can be used to improve the flow force modeling due to a Couette-type flow between a pipe with a moving eccentric cylindrical core, e.g. the flow between polecap and armature in an electrohydraulic valve. The velocity of the flow is determined analytically by solving the Stokes equation in an eccentric annulus with a conformal mapping-approach; see e.g. [PHW33]_. Afterwards an analytical postprocessing leads to the corresponding flow force (e.g. [LGK21]_). The results are validated by 3D-CFD. This work concludes with the combination of new Couette-flow force approximations and similar results for the known Poiseuille-flow to derive new relations for a combined Couette-Poiseuille flow force. This article is addressed to natural scientists and engineers that are interested in the application of conformal mappings and Taylor-expansions with the help of *sympy* when solving partial differential equations analytically.

Reviewer: python -> Python

Reviewer: the flow force modeling -> flow force modeling

Reviewer: `; see e.g. [PHW33]_` -> remove see and simply cite [PHW33]_.

Reviewer: an analytical postprocessing -> analytical postprocessing

Reviewer: 3D-CFD used without expanding the acronym

Reviewer 2: Done

>    This contribution shows how the symbolic computing python library *sympy* can be used to improve the flow force modeling due to a Couette-type flow between a pipe with a moving eccentric cylindrical core, e.g. the flow between polecap and armature in an electrohydraulic valve. The velocity of the flow is determined analytically by solving the Stokes equation in an eccentric annulus with a conformal mapping-approach; see e.g. [PHW33]_. Afterwards an analytical postprocessing leads to the corresponding flow force (e.g. [LGK21]_). The results are validated by 3D-CFD. This work concludes with the combination of new Couette-flow force approximations and similar results for the known Poiseuille-flow to derive new relations for a combined Couette-Poiseuille flow force. This article is addressed to natural scientists and engineers that are interested in the application of conformal mappings and Taylor-expansions with the help of *sympy* when solving partial differential equations analytically.

Reviewer: sympy -> SymPy

Reviewer 2: Done

.. class:: keywords

   Physical modeling, Stokes equation, Eccentric annulus, Flow force, Conformal mapping, Sympy

Introduction
------------

> In times of digitalization and wide use of numerical methods in physics, the question emerges whether analytical tools, such as Taylor-expansions or conformal mappings, are still of interest and how they can be utilized in industrial and academic research.

Reviewer: digitization

Reviewer 2: Done

> Computational power has increased significantly in the last years and many physical problems, ranging from electromagnetism to fluid dynamics and structural mechanics, can be solved directly by numerically integrating the corresponding three-dimensional PDEs, i.e. the Maxwell-, Navier-Stokes- or elasticity-equations.

Reviewer: Maxwell, Navier-Stokes, or elasticity equations

Reviewer 2: Done

> However, when modeling physical systems such as hydraulic valves, transmission systems, engines, cars or planes, a direct 3D-approach for all relevant physical effects is still too difficult. In these situations, look-up tables containing a limited set of 3D-results are often included into 1D-system models for later interpolation. Alternatively, analytical approximations are used which are already implemented in the corresponding system simulation tools (e.g. Simcenter Amesim); see [K19]_, [LGK21]_.

Reviewer: included in

Reviewer: Cite directly; remove see.

Reviewer 2: Done

> The following Figure :ref:`system` schematically shows such a valve system with input data from look-up tables and 1D-component symbols.

Reviewer: Remove "The following"

Reviewer 2: Done

> .. figure:: lookUpTables.png

Reviewer: It would be great if you could replace rainbow with a sensible colormap in that image.

   :scale: 37%
   :figclass: bht

   Valve system model with input data from look-up tables and 1D-component symbols :label:`system` 
   
Hence, in modern system modeling there are currently two main applications of analytical approximations:

1. Analytical approximations are included in the system simulation software components themselves

> 2. The user includes look-up tables for interpolation, entirely or partially generated with analytical approximations   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Analytical approximations are included in the system simulation software components themselves, or
2. The user includes look-up tables for interpolation, entirely or partially generated with analytical approximations.
```

Reviewer: (Punctuation of list elements.)

Reviewer 2: Done

   
In this work we will focus on analytical approximations of flow forces that act upon the inner cylinder in an eccentric annular flow. Figure :ref:`fig2` shows the general case where an inner cylinder of radius :math:`R_1` is vertically displaced by a distance :math:`b` from the center of an outer cylinder with radius :math:`R_2`.
 

> .. figure:: eccentric_z.pdf

Reviewer: Out of curiosity, what was this figure generated with?

Reviewer 2: We used Matplotlib for most figures; for this one as well

   :scale: 20%
   :figclass: bht

   Eccentric annular flow domain :label:`fig2`  

> Such forces are of interest for example in hydraulic valves that are electromagnetically actuated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such forces are of interest in, for example, hydraulic valves that are electromagnetically actuated. 
```

Reviewer 2: Done

When the armature moves, that movement causes a Couette-type annular flow, i.e. a viscous flow due to motion of a solid body, between armature and polecap; see Figure :ref:`armature`.

.. figure:: armature.png
   :scale: 45%
   :figclass: bht

   Armature and polecap in an electromagnetic actuator :label:`armature` 
   
In leading system simulation tools, the flow force that acts upon the inner cylinder in Figure :ref:`fig2` is typically approximated by the relation

.. math::
   :label: ForceSystemTool

   F_{system} = - 2\pi\,\frac{R_{1}l \mu u_R}{\delta}\,.

> Here :math:`\mu` denotes the viscosity of the fluid, :math:`l` represents the length of the inner cylinder, :math:`u_R` the velocity and :math:`\delta=R_2-R_1` corresponds to the annular gap, i.e. the difference between outer and inner radius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, :math:`\mu` denotes the viscosity of the fluid, :math:`l` the length of the inner cylinder, :math:`u_R` the velocity and :math:`\delta=R_2-R_1` the annular gap, i.e. the difference between outer and inner radius.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> Utilizing the capabilities of the open-scouce Computer Algebra System (CAS) *sympy* (version 1.6.1), the following contribution tries to answer two questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilizing the capabilities of the open-source Computer Algebra System (CAS) *sympy* (version 1.6.1), we answer two questions:
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> Utilizing the capabilities of the open-scouce Computer Algebra System (CAS) *sympy* (version 1.6.1), the following contribution tries to answer two questions:

Reviewer: Please cite SymPy in the first mention, here.

Reviewer 2: Done

1. How is Equation (:ref:`ForceSystemTool`) related to the corresponding Stokes equation?

> 2. Does eccentricity :math:`\varepsilon = b/\delta` change this dependency and if so, how exactly?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Does eccentricity :math:`\varepsilon = b/\delta` change this dependency and, if so, how exactly?
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> Furthermore, the velocities and forces obtained by solving the Stokes equation (i.e. the linear part of the Navier-Stokes equation) with *sympy* (see e.g. [MSP17]_) are compared to corresponding numerical solutions of the complete Navier-Stokes system, obtained from the commercially available Finite Volume tool ANSYS-CFX.

Reviewer: Remove SymPy citation here and move to first mention.

Reviewer 2: Done

Finally this article concludes with a note on the eccentric annular Poiseuille-flow (that is a flow due to a pressure drop) and finishes with a comment on Couette-Poiseuille-flow velocities and forces.
 

Material and methods
--------------------

In order to solve the Stokes problem

.. math::
   :label: stokesPoisseuilleCouette
   :type: eqnarray
  
    -\mu\Delta u&=&\frac{dp}{l} \text{ for $R_1<\sqrt{x^2+(y+b)^2}$ and $\sqrt{x^2+y^2}<R_2$}\nonumber\\
	u&=&0 \text{ for $\sqrt{x^2+y^2}=R_2$}\nonumber \\
	u&=&u_R \text{ for $\sqrt{x^2+(y+b)^2}=R_1$}\,,

> the following *sympy* functions and libraries were used: *im*, *re*, *subs*, *simplify* and *lambdify*. For the postprocessing the *sympy* functions *diff* and *series* were particularly useful. Additionally, the *latex* function allowed to use the latex code of the formulae. For the interactive development with *sympy* the *jupyter notebook* is used as GUI, here the *latex* math rendering is very useful. The visualization is done with *numpy* and *matplotlib*. Code snippets are provided within the text in the subsequent sections. In addition, supplemental python examples are available at this `public github repository <https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy>`_ [#]_.

Reviewer: This will be of interest to the readers; show them what `diff` and `series` does with an example!

Reviewer: Missing citation to Jupyter notebook

Reviewer: Malformed sentence: "For the interactive development with *sympy* the *jupyter notebook* is used as GUI, here the *latex* math rendering is very useful."  Perhaps a missing and or semi-colon?

Reviewer: Missing citations to NumPy and Matplotlib (also note the spelling of these libraries: NumPy, e.g., has a capital N and P).

Reviewer: The license file at https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy/blob/main/LICENSE does not seem to be correctly formatted.

Please include the text as provided by Creative Commons.

Reviewer: The repository at https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy has no README.md file.  Please provide one.

Reviewer: The repository provides no `requirements.txt`; please add it.

Reviewer: The code file `code_file_bipolar.py` does not generate output when run from Python.  Please add a `plt.show()` command at the end.

Reviewer: Neither of the two code files are formatted properly according to PEP8; please use pyflake or similar to check the files and update their syntax.

Reviewer: python -> Python

Reviewer: github -> GitHub

Transform the eccentric annulus to a simple domain with conformal mappings
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the following two Sections we will show with *sympy* how the Couette-flow problem within an eccentric annular domain can be transformed into a problem in a concentric annular region or into a rectangle.
In these simple geometries analytical solutions to the Couette-flow problem are known. In order to transform the domains we make use of complex analysis, inspired by the French mathematician Jacques Hadamard (1865-1963):

    *The shortest path between two truths in the real domain passes through the complex domain.*
    
 
The ideas and strategies of conformal mappings using *sympy* are mostly described in the following Section, where a Moebius transform is used.

Transformation to a concentric annulus with Moebius transforms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using a Moebius transform (also called a bilinear transformation) in the form of

.. math::
   :label: moebius1
   

>    \xi + \textrm{i}\,\eta = w(z)=\frac{z+\textrm{i}\,a}{az+\textrm{i}}\;\;\;\;(\textrm{with}\;\; z = x + \textrm{i}\, y)\,,

Reviewer: The first term of this equation is a bit confusing here.  Would it make sense to start with w(z) and then add that term at the end?

Reviewer 2: Is it better now?

> an eccentric annulus in the complex *z*-plane can be mapped onto a concentric annulus in the corresponding *w*-plane. The Moebius transform used here is a slightly adapted version of the one presented in [BC09]_; :math:`a` is a constant (given in [BC09]_) and will be explicitly stated further down in this Section.

Reviewer: explicitly stated?  Or perhaps explained in more detail or similar?

Reviewer 2: Done

.. code-block:: python

>     from sympy import *

Reviewer: This is typically considered bad style.  `import sympy as sym` is what they use in the SymPy manual.

Reviewer 2: Done

    x,y,z,R1,R2,a =symbols('x,y,z,R1,R2,a', real=True)

Scaling the geometry in such a way that the outer circle ends up having a radius of 1

 .. code-block:: python

>     w=(z+I*a)/(a*z+I)

Reviewer: Please use PEP8 complaint syntax throughout.

Reviewer 2: Done

1. How is Equation (:ref:`ForceSystemTool`) related to the corresponding Stokes equation?
2. Does eccentricity :math:`\varepsilon = b/\delta` change this dependency and, if so, how exactly?

Furthermore, the velocities and forces obtained by solving the Stokes problem (i.e. the linear part of the Navier-Stokes system) with *SymPy* are compared to corresponding numerical solutions of the full, nonlinear Navier-Stokes equations, obtained from the commercially available Finite Volume tool ANSYS-CFX.
Finally this article concludes with a note on the eccentric annular Poiseuille flow (that is a flow due to a pressure difference) and finishes with a comment on comnbined Couette-Poiseuille flow velocities and forces.
 

Material and methods
--------------------

In order to solve the Stokes problem

.. math::
   :label: stokesPoisseuilleCouette
   :type: eqnarray
  
    -\mu\Delta u & = & \frac{dp}{l}\quad\text{for $R_1<\sqrt{x^2+(y+b)^2}$ and $\sqrt{x^2+y^2}<R_2$}\nonumber\\
	u & = & 0 \quad\;\;\;\;\text{for $\sqrt{x^2+y^2}=R_2$}\nonumber \\
	u & = & u_R \quad\;\;\text{for $\sqrt{x^2+(y+b)^2}=R_1$}\,,

> the following *SymPy* functions and libraries were used: *im*, *re*, *subs*, *simplify* and *lambdify*. For the postprocessing the *SymPy* functions *diff* and *series* were particularly useful. Additionally, the *latex* function allowed to use the latex code of the formulae. For the interactive development with *SymPy* the *Jupyter Notebook* is used as GUI; there the *latex* math rendering proved to be very useful. The visualization is done with *NumPy* and *Matplotlib*. Code snippets are provided within the text in the subsequent sections. In addition, supplemental Python examples are available at this `public GitHub repository <https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy>`_ [#]_.

Reviewer 3: Typically when formatting code, it is standard to use two back quotes (\``code\``) to refer to code examples; e.g. ``simplify`` vs *simplify*.

.. [#] `<https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy>`_ 

The theoretical methods used here are conformal mappings (inspired by [PHW33]_ and [BC09]_) and Taylor-expansions, following [LGK21]_. Equations (:ref:`stokesPoisseuilleCouette`) describe *Couette flow* when :math:`dp=0` and :math:`u_R\neq 0` and *Poiseuille flow*, when :math:`dp\neq 0` and :math:`u_R=0`. Furthermore, Equations (:ref:`stokesPoisseuilleCouette`) describe *Couette-Poiseuille flow* when :math:`dp\neq 0` and :math:`u_R\neq 0`.

Solution of the Stokes problem within a concentric annulus for Couette-type flow
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The solution of the Stokes problem within a concentric annulus for a Couette-type flow is well known, e.g. [LL59]_, and given by

.. math::
   :label: concentricU

   u(r)=u_R\,\frac{\ln(r/R_2)}{\ln(R_1/R_2)}\,,
   

> where :math:`r = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2}`. This can easily be checked by using the *diff* function of *SymPy*. Keep in mind, that the natural logarithm is denoted by *log* there.

Reviewer 3: I'd use "natural logarithm, ln", to be explicit.

	u & = & u_R \quad\;\;\text{for $\sqrt{x^2+(y+b)^2}=R_1$}\,,

> the following *SymPy* functions and libraries were used: ``im``, ``re``, ``subs``, ``simplify`` and ``lambdify``. For the postprocessing the *SymPy* functions ``diff`` and ``series`` were particularly useful. Additionally, the ``latex`` function allowed to use the latex code of the formulae. For the interactive development with *SymPy* the *Jupyter Notebook* is used as GUI; there the ``latex`` math rendering proved to be very useful. The visualization is done with *NumPy* and *Matplotlib*. Code snippets are provided within the text in the subsequent sections. In addition, supplemental Python examples are available at this `public GitHub repository <https://github.com/zolabar/ConformalMappingSympy>`_ [#]_.

Reviewer 3: Purely stylistic, but I see no need to put Jupyter Notebook in italics. Similarly, if you are going to markup up libraries like SymPy and Matplotlib, the convention is not italics, but the \``code\`` markup. As an example, have a look at a [previous SciPy submission](http://conference.scipy.org/proceedings/scipy2019/pdfs/eric_ma.pdf)  for context. There are also a couple of *italics* code markup; just run a search for \* in your RST document to make sure the document is consistent.
